docs/docs/ricos/ricos-api.mdx, before:

---
id: ricos-api
title: Ricos API
sidebar_label: Ricos API
---

import { RicosEditor } from 'ricos-editor';
import 'ricos-editor/dist/styles.min.css';

## Ricos Common API

### `children`

```jsx
children?: RichContentEditor | RichContentViewer
```

For backward compatibility. Any prop given to the child component will deeply override the matching prop created in Ricos' internal logic.
Read mre about backward compatibilityin [Migrating from rich-content](migrating-from-rich-content)

```jsx {2}
<RicosEditor>
  <RichContentEditor placeholder={'Type here!'} />
</RicosEditor>
```

### `content`

```jsx
content?: RicosContent
```

A `RicosContent` is an immutable object that saves the entire content created by a `RicosEditor`. For `RicosViewer` this is a requirement, it will set the content to display. For the `RicosEditor` this will set its initial state.

### `cssOverride`

```jsx
cssOverride?: RicosCssOverride
```

CSS class overriding that will be passed to `RichContentEditor` or `RichContentViewer`.

```jsx
<RicosEditor
  cssOverride={{
    modalTheme: {
      content: { zIndex: 1 },
      overlay: { width: '100%' },
    },
  }}
/>
```

:::note
Works similarly to the `theme` property of `RichContentEditor` and `RichContentViewer`.
:::

### `isMobile`

```jsx
isMobile?: boolean
```

Will render in mobile optimized mode

### `linkSettings`

```jsx
linkSettings?: {
  anchorTarget?: string;
  relValue?: string;
}
```

Defines the behavior of links.
anchorTarget - as defined in [HTMLAnchorElement.target](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a#attr-target)
relValue - as defined in [HTMLAnchorElement.rel](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLAnchorElement/rel)

### `locale`

```jsx
locale?: string
```

Any two letter string represing a [supported](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/tree/master/packages/common/web/statics/locale) locale. Determines the language and text direction.

### `mediaSettings`

```jsx
mediaSettings?: {
  pauseMedia?: boolean;
  disableRightClick?: boolean;
  onUpload?: (isUploading: boolean) => void;
}
```

#### `pauseMedia`

When `true`, media like videos will be paused.
A possible use case is for pausing videos on tab switch.

#### `disableRightClick`

Disables the mouse right click functionality for the gallery, video and image plugins.

#### `onUpload`

The function will be called with `true` when there is an active media upload starts, and will be called again with `false` when no active upload exists

### `onError`

```jsx
onError?: (error: string) => void
```

TODO

### `plugins`

```jsx
plugins?: PluginConfig[]
```

For every plugin you install, import it and add it to the plugins array.

```jsx
import { RicosEditor } from 'ricos-editor';

import { pluginVideo } from 'wix-rich-content-plugin-video';
import 'wix-rich-content-plugin-video/dist/styles.min.css';

<RicosEditor plugins={[pluginVideo()]} />;
```

:::note
For rendering a viewer, import the plugin from the viewer entry point <br/> `wix-rich-content-plugin-video/dist/module.viewer`
:::

### `theme`

```jsx
theme?: {
  palette?: Palette | PalettePreset
  parentClass?: string;
}
```

#### `palette`

Defines the palette of colors that will be used. More info in [Theming](theming)

#### `parentClass`

A parent css className that wraps a ricos instance.
With this defined, dynamic styles will be wrapped by `parentClass` for CSS specifity.

## Ricos Editor API

### `draftEditorSettings`

```jsx
draftEditorSettings?: {
  autoCapitalize?: string;
  autoComplete?: string;
  autoCorrect?: string;
  spellCheck?: boolean;
  stripPastedStyles?: boolean;
  handleBeforeInput?: ((chars: string, editorState: EditorState, eventTimeStamp: number) => 'handled' | 'not-handled');
  handlePastedText?: ((text: string, html: string, editorState: EditorState) => 'handled' | 'not-handled');
  handleReturn?: ((e: SyntheticKeyboardEvent, editorState: EditorState) => 'handled' | 'not-handled');
  tabIndex?: string;
}
```

draft-js props, as described in [https://draftjs.org/docs/api-reference-editor](https://draftjs.org/docs/api-reference-editor)

### `linkPanelSettings`

```jsx
linkPanelSettings?: {
  blankTargetToggleVisibilityFn?: (anchorTarget: string) => boolean;
  nofollowRelToggleVisibilityFn?: (relValue: string) => boolean;
  placeholder?: string;}
```

Settings for the link panel component.

#### `blankTargetToggleVisibilityFn`

Determines the 'Open link in a new tab' link panel checkbox visiblity.
By default, its predicate is `anchorTarget !== '_blank'`

#### `nofollowRelToggleVisibilityFn`

Determines the 'Add a nofollow tag' link panel checkbox visiblity.
By default, its predicate is `relValue !== 'nofollow'`

#### `placeholder`

Determines the placeholder to use for the link panel.
By default, its value is `"Enter a URL here"` translated by localization

### `modalSettings`

Customise the `ReactModal` of `RicosEditor`, or alternatively provide callbacks to create your own Modal.

```jsx
modalSettings?: {
  ariaHiddenId?: string;
  openModal?: (modalProps: object) =>  void;
  closeModal?: () =>  void;
}
```

#### `ariaHiddenId`

Accessibility prop.
Provides `aria-hidden` attribute to a given DOM Element ID while the modal is open, making it hidden for screenreaders of users.
Passed directly into the `ReactModal`'s [AppElement](https://reactcommunity.org/react-modal/accessibility/#app-element).

Default Value: `body`

```jsx
<RicosEditor modalSettings={{ ariaHiddenId: '#root' }} />
```

#### `openModal` & `closeModal`

Legacy RCE's `openModal`, `closeModal` (helpers)[rce_api/helpers].

:::note
Leave these empty if you don't plan to use a Modal Component of your own. Otherwise, `RicosEditor` will assume you do, and won't handle the `ReactModal` it's supplied with.
:::

### `onChange`

```jsx
onChange?: (content: RicosContent) => void
```

A callback that runs whenever the editor's content is edited.

### `placeholder`

```jsx
placeholder?: string
```

This text will appear in the editor until content is created

```jsx
<RicosEditor placeholder={'The placeholder appears until you start typing'} />
```

<div className="card">
  <RicosEditor placeholder={'The placeholder appears until you start typing'} />
</div>

### `ref`

```jsx
ref?: React.Ref
```

A react [Ref](https://reactjs.org/docs/refs-and-the-dom.html). Use this to access editor functions.

| Function                                                  | Description                |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| `focus(): void`                                           | Focuses the editor         |
| `blur(): void`                                            | Blurs the editor           |
| `getContent(postId?: string, forPublish?: boolean): void` | Retrieves the content data |

:::note
`forPublish` is used for triggering the `onPublish` BI event, set it to `true` when `getContent` is called before publishing a an editor's content in your app.
:::

```jsx
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  componentDidMount() {
    this.editor.focus();
  }
  render() {
    <RicosEditor ref={editor => (this.editor = editor)} />;
  }
}
```

### `toolbarSettings`

```jsx
toolbarSettings?: {
  getToolbarSettings?: GetToolbarSettings;
  textToolbarContainer?: HTMLElement;
  useStaticTextToolbar?: boolean;
}
```

#### `getToolbarSettings`

TODO

#### `textToolbarContainer`

Given some container HTML element, the text toolbar will be rendered inside it.
Overrides `useStaticTextToolbar`.

```jsx
const RicosWithToolbarContainer = () => {
  const bottomToolbar = document.createElement('div');

  useEffect(() => {
    const wrappingDiv = document.getElementById('editor-static-toolbar-wrapper');
    wrappingDiv.appendChild(bottomToolbar);
  }, []);

  return (
    <div id="editor-static-toolbar-wrapper">
      <RicosEditor toolbarSettings={{ textToolbarContainer: bottomToolbar }} />
    </div>
  );
};
```

In this example we render the static text toolbar below the editor.

import RicosWithToolbarContainer from '../../infra/editor/components/RicosWithToolbarContainer';
import BrowserOnly from '@docusaurus/BrowserOnly';
<BrowserOnly fallback={<div />}>{RicosWithToolbarContainer}</BrowserOnly>;

#### `useStaticTextToolbar`

The text toolbar appears inline when selecting some text and allows styling text.
Set to true in order to render the text toolbar in a fixed position **above** the editor.

import content from '../../infra/editor/content/intro.json';

<div className="card">
  <RicosEditor toolbarSettings={{ useStaticTextToolbar: true }} content={content} />
</div>

## Ricos Viewer API

### `preview`

```jsx
preview?: {
  transformation?: ContentStateTransformation;
  contentInteractionMappers?: Funtion;
  onPreviewExpand?: () => void;
}
```

A preview decoration for RicosViewer.
Read more in [Preview](preview)

### `seoSettings`

```jsx
seoSettings?: boolean | {
  paywall: {
    className: string;
    index: number;
  };
}
```

When given a truthy value, renders RicosViewer in a SEO optimized mode.
An object allows extended configuration.

#### `paywall`

className - Content blocked by a payall will be marked up using this string (This class will be used by Googlebot to discern between paid and free content on a page level)
index - number of free content blocks

Commit message:

change from onUpload to onBusyChange

docs/docs/ricos/ricos-api.mdx, after:

---
id: ricos-api
title: Ricos API
sidebar_label: Ricos API
---

import { RicosEditor } from 'ricos-editor';
import 'ricos-editor/dist/styles.min.css';

## Ricos Common API

### `children`

```jsx
children?: RichContentEditor | RichContentViewer
```

For backward compatibility. Any prop given to the child component will deeply override the matching prop created in Ricos' internal logic.
Read mre about backward compatibilityin [Migrating from rich-content](migrating-from-rich-content)

```jsx {2}
<RicosEditor>
  <RichContentEditor placeholder={'Type here!'} />
</RicosEditor>
```

### `content`

```jsx
content?: RicosContent
```

A `RicosContent` is an immutable object that saves the entire content created by a `RicosEditor`. For `RicosViewer` this is a requirement, it will set the content to display. For the `RicosEditor` this will set its initial state.

### `cssOverride`

```jsx
cssOverride?: RicosCssOverride
```

CSS class overriding that will be passed to `RichContentEditor` or `RichContentViewer`.

```jsx
<RicosEditor
  cssOverride={{
    modalTheme: {
      content: { zIndex: 1 },
      overlay: { width: '100%' },
    },
  }}
/>
```

:::note
Works similarly to the `theme` property of `RichContentEditor` and `RichContentViewer`.
:::

### `isMobile`

```jsx
isMobile?: boolean
```

Will render in mobile optimized mode

### `linkSettings`

```jsx
linkSettings?: {
  anchorTarget?: string;
  relValue?: string;
}
```

Defines the behavior of links.
anchorTarget - as defined in [HTMLAnchorElement.target](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a#attr-target)
relValue - as defined in [HTMLAnchorElement.rel](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLAnchorElement/rel)

### `locale`

```jsx
locale?: string
```

Any two letter string represing a [supported](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/tree/master/packages/common/web/statics/locale) locale. Determines the language and text direction.

### `mediaSettings`

```jsx
mediaSettings?: {
  pauseMedia?: boolean;
  disableRightClick?: boolean;
}
```

#### `pauseMedia`

When `true`, media like videos will be paused.
A possible use case is for pausing videos on tab switch.

#### `disableRightClick`

Disables the mouse right click functionality for the gallery, video and image plugins.

### `onError`

```jsx
onError?: (error: string) => void
```

TODO

### `plugins`

```jsx
plugins?: PluginConfig[]
```

For every plugin you install, import it and add it to the plugins array.

```jsx
import { RicosEditor } from 'ricos-editor';

import { pluginVideo } from 'wix-rich-content-plugin-video';
import 'wix-rich-content-plugin-video/dist/styles.min.css';

<RicosEditor plugins={[pluginVideo()]} />;
```

:::note
For rendering a viewer, import the plugin from the viewer entry point <br/> `wix-rich-content-plugin-video/dist/module.viewer`
:::

### `theme`

```jsx
theme?: {
  palette?: Palette | PalettePreset
  parentClass?: string;
}
```

#### `palette`

Defines the palette of colors that will be used. More info in [Theming](theming)

#### `parentClass`

A parent css className that wraps a ricos instance.
With this defined, dynamic styles will be wrapped by `parentClass` for CSS specifity.

## Ricos Editor API

### `draftEditorSettings`

```jsx
draftEditorSettings?: {
  autoCapitalize?: string;
  autoComplete?: string;
  autoCorrect?: string;
  spellCheck?: boolean;
  stripPastedStyles?: boolean;
  handleBeforeInput?: ((chars: string, editorState: EditorState, eventTimeStamp: number) => 'handled' | 'not-handled');
  handlePastedText?: ((text: string, html: string, editorState: EditorState) => 'handled' | 'not-handled');
  handleReturn?: ((e: SyntheticKeyboardEvent, editorState: EditorState) => 'handled' | 'not-handled');
  tabIndex?: string;
}
```

draft-js props, as described in [https://draftjs.org/docs/api-reference-editor](https://draftjs.org/docs/api-reference-editor)

### `linkPanelSettings`

```jsx
linkPanelSettings?: {
  blankTargetToggleVisibilityFn?: (anchorTarget: string) => boolean;
  nofollowRelToggleVisibilityFn?: (relValue: string) => boolean;
  placeholder?: string;}
```

Settings for the link panel component.

#### `blankTargetToggleVisibilityFn`

Determines the 'Open link in a new tab' link panel checkbox visiblity.
By default, its predicate is `anchorTarget !== '_blank'`

#### `nofollowRelToggleVisibilityFn`

Determines the 'Add a nofollow tag' link panel checkbox visiblity.
By default, its predicate is `relValue !== 'nofollow'`

#### `placeholder`

Determines the placeholder to use for the link panel.
By default, its value is `"Enter a URL here"` translated by localization

### `modalSettings`

Customise the `ReactModal` of `RicosEditor`, or alternatively provide callbacks to create your own Modal.

```jsx
modalSettings?: {
  ariaHiddenId?: string;
  openModal?: (modalProps: object) =>  void;
  closeModal?: () =>  void;
}
```

#### `ariaHiddenId`

Accessibility prop.
Provides `aria-hidden` attribute to a given DOM Element ID while the modal is open, making it hidden for screenreaders of users.
Passed directly into the `ReactModal`'s [AppElement](https://reactcommunity.org/react-modal/accessibility/#app-element).

Default Value: `body`

```jsx
<RicosEditor modalSettings={{ ariaHiddenId: '#root' }} />
```

#### `openModal` & `closeModal`

Legacy RCE's `openModal`, `closeModal` (helpers)[rce_api/helpers].

:::note
Leave these empty if you don't plan to use a Modal Component of your own. Otherwise, `RicosEditor` will assume you do, and won't handle the `ReactModal` it's supplied with.
:::

### `onBusyChange`

```jsx
onBusyChange?: (isBusy: boolean) => void
```

A function that will be called with `true` when the editor is busy, e.g. when a media plugin begins uploading, and will be called with `false` when the editor becomes idle again.

### `onChange`

```jsx
onChange?: (content: RicosContent) => void
```

A callback that runs whenever the editor's content is edited.

### `placeholder`

```jsx
placeholder?: string
```

This text will appear in the editor until content is created

```jsx
<RicosEditor placeholder={'The placeholder appears until you start typing'} />
```

<div className="card">
  <RicosEditor placeholder={'The placeholder appears until you start typing'} />
</div>

### `ref`

```jsx
ref?: React.Ref
```

A react [Ref](https://reactjs.org/docs/refs-and-the-dom.html). Use this to access editor functions.

| Function                                                  | Description                |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| `focus(): void`                                           | Focuses the editor         |
| `blur(): void`                                            | Blurs the editor           |
| `getContent(postId?: string, forPublish?: boolean): void` | Retrieves the content data |

:::note
`forPublish` is used for triggering the `onPublish` BI event, set it to `true` when `getContent` is called before publishing a an editor's content in your app.
:::

```jsx
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  componentDidMount() {
    this.editor.focus();
  }
  render() {
    <RicosEditor ref={editor => (this.editor = editor)} />;
  }
}
```

### `toolbarSettings`

```jsx
toolbarSettings?: {
  getToolbarSettings?: GetToolbarSettings;
  textToolbarContainer?: HTMLElement;
  useStaticTextToolbar?: boolean;
}
```

#### `getToolbarSettings`

TODO

#### `textToolbarContainer`

Given some container HTML element, the text toolbar will be rendered inside it.
Overrides `useStaticTextToolbar`.

```jsx
const RicosWithToolbarContainer = () => {
  const bottomToolbar = document.createElement('div');

  useEffect(() => {
    const wrappingDiv = document.getElementById('editor-static-toolbar-wrapper');
    wrappingDiv.appendChild(bottomToolbar);
  }, []);

  return (
    <div id="editor-static-toolbar-wrapper">
      <RicosEditor toolbarSettings={{ textToolbarContainer: bottomToolbar }} />
    </div>
  );
};
```

In this example we render the static text toolbar below the editor.

import RicosWithToolbarContainer from '../../infra/editor/components/RicosWithToolbarContainer';
import BrowserOnly from '@docusaurus/BrowserOnly';
<BrowserOnly fallback={<div />}>{RicosWithToolbarContainer}</BrowserOnly>;

#### `useStaticTextToolbar`

The text toolbar appears inline when selecting some text and allows styling text.
Set to true in order to render the text toolbar in a fixed position **above** the editor.

import content from '../../infra/editor/content/intro.json';

<div className="card">
  <RicosEditor toolbarSettings={{ useStaticTextToolbar: true }} content={content} />
</div>

## Ricos Viewer API

### `preview`

```jsx
preview?: {
  transformation?: ContentStateTransformation;
  contentInteractionMappers?: Funtion;
  onPreviewExpand?: () => void;
}
```

A preview decoration for RicosViewer.
Read more in [Preview](preview)

### `seoSettings`

```jsx
seoSettings?: boolean | {
  paywall: {
    className: string;
    index: number;
  };
}
```

When given a truthy value, renders RicosViewer in a SEO optimized mode.
An object allows extended configuration.

#### `paywall`

className - Content blocked by a payall will be marked up using this string (This class will be used by Googlebot to discern between paid and free content on a page level)
index - number of free content blocks
