docs/docs/ricos/migrations/migrating-to-v8.mdx, before:

---
id: v7-to-v8
title: Migrating to Version 8
sidebar_label: v.7 => v.8
---

## Theme

### `createTheme()` removed

No need to use the theme creator function.

#### Before

```tsx
import { createTheme } from 'ricos-theme';
//...
<RicosEditor
    theme={createTheme({ palette, parentClass})} />
```

#### After

```tsx
<RicosEditor
    theme={{ palette, parentClass}} />
```


***

### Design Updates
(relevant to `cssOverride` / legacy `theme` prop)

If you're overriding styles, make sure your css files are aligned with this version's updates.

Listed below are the major style changes.
If you face conflicts related to other changes that aren't listed here, you can check the [the rest of the .scss differences here](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/pull/1607/files?file-filters%5B%5D=.scss).

#### `plugin-mentions`
|Before|After|
|------|-----|
|<img width="260" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 35 55" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95095237-79048d00-0733-11eb-899a-d887a784a2a5.png" />|<img width="251" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 35 55" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95095355-9f2a2d00-0733-11eb-9287-a07f867e2e74.png" />|

- [mentions.scss](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/blob/master/packages/plugin-mentions/web/statics/mentions.scss)

***

#### `Inline Toolbar`
|Before|After|
|------|-----|
|<img width="614" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 36 17 3" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95096162-98e88080-0734-11eb-8113-47da9d5b37df.png" />|<img width="623" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 36 17 2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95096165-9a19ad80-0734-11eb-9dea-e516aaa62b11.png" />|

- [inline-toolbar-button.scss](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/blob/master/packages/editor-common/web/statics/styles/inline-toolbar-button.scss)
- [inline-toolbar-dropdown-button.scss](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/blob/master/packages/editor/web/statics/styles/inline-toolbar-dropdown-button.scss)

***

#### `Plugin Toolbar`
|Before|After|
|------|-----|
|<img width="480" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 31 48 3" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95100351-af450b00-0739-11eb-82ee-02e6181060b3.png" />|<img width="480" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 31 48 2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95100360-b0763800-0739-11eb-9177-43126c878d76.png" />|

- [plugin-toolbar.scss](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/blob/master/packages/plugin-commons/web/statics/styles/plugin-toolbar.scss)
- [plugin-toolbar-button.scss](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/blob/master/packages/plugin-commons/web/statics/styles/plugin-toolbar-button.scss)

Commit message:

[docs] migrating-to-v8: plugin-commons breaking change

docs/docs/ricos/migrations/migrating-to-v8.mdx, after:

---
id: v7-to-v8
title: Migrating to Version 8
sidebar_label: v.7 => v.8
---
## plugin-commons separation

The `wix-rich-content-editor-common` package size has been significantly reduced -- all the plugin-related stuff now resides in the separate `wix-rich-content-plugin-commons` package. 

The change is _almost_ internal, except the only drawback. Now it is required to import `plugin-commons` styles:

either in JS:

```js

    import 'wix-rich-content-plugin-commons/dist/styles.min.css';

```
or in CSS:

```css

    @import "~wix-rich-content-plugin-commons/dist/styles.min.css";

```


## Theme

### `createTheme()` removed

No need to use the theme creator function.

#### Before

```tsx
import { createTheme } from 'ricos-theme';
//...
<RicosEditor
    theme={createTheme({ palette, parentClass})} />
```

#### After

```tsx
<RicosEditor
    theme={{ palette, parentClass}} />
```


***

### Design Updates
(relevant to `cssOverride` / legacy `theme` prop)

If you're overriding styles, make sure your css files are aligned with this version's updates.

Listed below are the major style changes.
If you face conflicts related to other changes that aren't listed here, you can check the [the rest of the .scss differences here](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/pull/1607/files?file-filters%5B%5D=.scss).

#### `plugin-mentions`
|Before|After|
|------|-----|
|<img width="260" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 35 55" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95095237-79048d00-0733-11eb-899a-d887a784a2a5.png" />|<img width="251" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 35 55" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95095355-9f2a2d00-0733-11eb-9287-a07f867e2e74.png" />|

- [mentions.scss](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/blob/master/packages/plugin-mentions/web/statics/mentions.scss)

***

#### `Inline Toolbar`
|Before|After|
|------|-----|
|<img width="614" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 36 17 3" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95096162-98e88080-0734-11eb-8113-47da9d5b37df.png" />|<img width="623" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 36 17 2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95096165-9a19ad80-0734-11eb-9dea-e516aaa62b11.png" />|

- [inline-toolbar-button.scss](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/blob/master/packages/editor-common/web/statics/styles/inline-toolbar-button.scss)
- [inline-toolbar-dropdown-button.scss](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/blob/master/packages/editor/web/statics/styles/inline-toolbar-dropdown-button.scss)

***

#### `Plugin Toolbar`
|Before|After|
|------|-----|
|<img width="480" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 31 48 3" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95100351-af450b00-0739-11eb-82ee-02e6181060b3.png" />|<img width="480" alt="Screen Shot 2020-10-04 at 17 31 48 2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22775305/95100360-b0763800-0739-11eb-9177-43126c878d76.png" />|

- [plugin-toolbar.scss](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/blob/master/packages/plugin-commons/web/statics/styles/plugin-toolbar.scss)
- [plugin-toolbar-button.scss](https://github.com/wix-incubator/rich-content/blob/master/packages/plugin-commons/web/statics/styles/plugin-toolbar-button.scss)
